Date: 01-01-2000
Title: FutureOfTheFX3s
Type: wiki


FutureOfTheFX3s 
===============





### NB: this is all rather out of date - we were funded with a Harlington grant app in 2007 to replace all of these with Vertex mounted Petzl Duo 14 LEDs

Sometime in 2005/2006 we replaced all the Halogen bulbs in the FX3s with
Low Wattage (1W?) Luxeon LED lights. We bought these with our own money
(SGI) as the Union in their infinite wisdom wouldn't fund headlights as
essential safety equipment for a caving club.

These have been brilliant - and give a supposed endurance of around
35hrs on a full FX3 (NiCd) battery.

However, as of April 2007, all our FX3 batteries are showing loss of
capacitance, and the FX3 connector blocks all have bad contacts. Most of
these could probably be fixed with careful flexing of the 4-leaf pins,
and cleaning of the plug sockets.

However - FX3s are unpleasent to use underground, and it makes sense to
jump on to some kind of LED-FX3/Helmet Mounted battery system before a
wholesale upgrade of the club lights.

Dave Wilson suggests the following: (April 2007)

"If the existing 'bulbs' are two-thirds of a Watt (circa 250mA), 3xAAs
would give reasonable life, but would be a pain to handle loose. If you
were going to solder cells together to make up packs with race-pack
connectors, you might as well use 4/3A, 7/5AF, 18670s, to give a better
capacity than AAs (4-4.5Ah - likely last a weekend of anything but the
hardest caving) A multiway smart (\~0.5C / 2hr) charger wouldn't be too
hard to make. If you weren't bothered about the display side (just a
'charged' LED per connector), and people weren't going to mess about
with it too much (swapping batteries while it's running), something
basically like the one I made for myself, but programmed to charge a set
of batteries in turn wouldn't take a huge amount of extra electronics or
programming. A 5-gang one might even be squeezable into the 18-pin PIC
chip design I use for my existing charger with slight mods for
sequentially charging the various packs."







