Date: 01-01-2000
Title: StoresCleanUp
Type: wiki



### Washing Machines

Be careful with these machines! Efficient and German they may be, they
also have a psychopathetic control system. Interrupting them, or
changing the dial once they start, is really dangerous - they can
arbitrarily flip themselves into a 90 degree wash, which obviously
requires any PPE locked within the drum to be discarded! For safety I
generally dial up the programme before even closing the front...

The normal delicate cycle takes about 45 minutes, with a pre wash, about
an hour.

**Pre-wash** can be added on all cycles by selecting the **+1** button.
This is really good for very dirty ropes, or stinking furries. With
furries you'll probably want to add a little bit of powder into the
pre-wash compartment (the small one)

**Ropes** - flake tightly + add lots of stopper locks to the head. Place
around drum of washing machine + wash on 30 Delicate with **no
detergent**. Don't overstuff as friction against the glass plate while
spinning can melt ropes! Pad with neoprene if the drum is really empty -
stops the spin cycle from being too vibronic, and reduces chance of
uncoiling + tangling.

**Furries** - try and have a 100% polyester wash, as it will spin dry
itself almost completely. Might as well use 40 / synthetic. Just a bit
of cotton / neoprene and it's all a lot more damp. You can tumble dry
them, ideally in two dryers at once (you can wash a lot more than you
can dry). Use detergent - shampoo is a good substitute if we're out of
laundry stuff.

**Neoprene** - don't wash whole wetsuits! Usually put in with misc bits
of muddied gear, such as footloops + cowstails / harnesses / etc. If the
cowstails are suitably padded with neoprene stuff in the drum, you don't
need to remove the carabiners. Ideally turn off the spin cycle (there's
a button to do that). Don't use detergent. Delicate cycle (30C).
